@node Top
@top Top

@menu
* Snake Game::
@end menu

@node Snake Game
@chapter Snake Game
@anchor{#snake-game}
Welcome to the Snake Game! This is a classic snake game implemented
using C and the ncurses library. The objective of the game is to control
the snake and eat the food that appears on the screen. Each time the
snake eats food, it grows longer, and the game continues until the snake
collides with itself or the border.

@menu
* Features::
* Requirements::
* Installation::
* How to Play::
* Game Logic::
* License::
@end menu

@node Features
@section Features
@anchor{#features}
@itemize
@item
@strong{Smooth Gameplay:} The game provides smooth and responsive
gameplay using the ncurses library.
@item
@strong{Score Tracking:} The game keeps track of the player's score,
which is based on the length of the snake.
@item
@strong{Food Generation:} Random food generation ensures a unique and
challenging experience every time.
@item
@strong{Game Over Screen:} Displays the final score and a game over
message when the snake collides with itself or the border.
@end itemize

@node Requirements
@section Requirements
@anchor{#requirements}
@itemize
@item
@strong{GCC:} You need GCC installed to compile the game.
@item
@strong{ncurses:} The game uses the ncurses library and output.
@end itemize

@node Installation
@section Installation
@anchor{#installation}
To install the game, follow these steps:

@enumerate
@item
Clone the repository:

@verbatim
git clone https://github.com/CalestialAshley35/snake.git
@end verbatim

@item
Navigate to the project directory:

@verbatim
cd snake
@end verbatim

@item
Compile the game using GCC:

@verbatim
gcc -o snake snake.c -lncurses
@end verbatim

@end enumerate

@node How to Play
@section How to Play
@anchor{#how-to-play}
@enumerate
@item
Run the game:

@verbatim
./snake
@end verbatim

@item
Use the arrow keys to control the snake:

@itemize
@item
@strong{Up:} Move up
@item
@strong{Down:} Move down
@item
@strong{Left:} Move left
@item
@strong{Right:} Move right
@end itemize

@item
The goal is to eat the food (@code{*}) that appears on the screen. Each
time the snake eats food, it grows longer.

@item
Avoid colliding with the borders (@code{#}) or with yourself. When the
snake collides, the game is over, and the final score is displayed.

@end enumerate

@node Game Logic
@section Game Logic
@anchor{#game-logic}
The game consists of the following main functions:

@itemize
@item
@strong{init():} Initializes the ncurses library and sets up the game
environment.
@item
@strong{draw_border():} Draws the game border on the screen.
@item
@strong{draw_snake:} Draws the snake on the screen based on its current
position and length.
@item
@strong{move_snake:} Moves the snake in the current direction and checks
for collisions with the food.
@item
@strong{collision:} Checks if the snake has collided with the border or
itself.
@item
@strong{generate_food:} Generates food at a random position on the
screen.
@item
@strong{game_over(int score):} Displays the game over screen with the
final score.
@end itemize

@node License
@section License
@anchor{#license}
This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See
the @uref{https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html,LICENSE} file for
details.
